# Poetic function (assignment 2)

## Presentation

- Think about a 'function', write its protocol, and design in a (semi) interactive way.
- In the format of an HTML page or a serie of HTML pages that uses CSS and a bit of JavaScript.

Schedule:

- **11 November**: introduction of the assignment
- **18 November**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (4h)
- **25 November**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (2h)
- **02 December**: individual/small group follow-up on the assignment (2h)
- **09 December**: delivery and presentation of the assignment in class

## What is a function?

In short:

`Noun`
- an activity that is natural to or the purpose of a person or thing. *"bridges perform the function of providing access across water"*
- `MATHEMATICS`, a relation or expression involving one or more variables. *"the function (bx + c)"*

`Verb`, work or operate in a proper or particular way. *"her liver is functioning normally"*

### Examples:

- Functions of **“life”**: [...] *the basic functions of an organism is to consume energy and molecules in foods, convert some of it into fuel for movement, sustain body functions, and build and maintain body structures.*
- Functionality of **“rooms”**: [...] *the layout of a house requires to adequately understand the functions of each room in relation to architectural universal rules and the specific needs of the inhabitants.*
- Functions of the **“economy”**: [...] *the four functions of an economic system is what to produce, how much to produce, how to produce, and to whom to distribute.*
- Functions of **“emotions”**: [...] *emotions are specific reactions to a particular event. For example, you feel annoyed when your favourite team loses a game, or excited when you are being visited by a loved one you haven't seen for a while.
- **“Social”** functions: [...] the manifest function of education is to teach children skills/knowledge and familiarize them with social norms. However, by going to school, children also form friendships and discover their interests; these are latent functions. [...] Social Functions Contain Inequalities. First, Merton was against functional unity in society. In other words, he argued that all institutions/practices are not beneficial to all individuals. Merton demonstrated that the social function of some institutions was also to oppress and constrain many members of society.
- Examples of **mathematical** functions in real life include: Estimating animal populations; Determining risk factors for insurance rates, etc.

### To do:

**Think of a function.**

**Input:**
- What are the elements/values you need for your function (numbers, text, objects, actions, tangible or subjective)

**The function itself:**
- What does your function do? Does it dilute, summarize, make things complicated, help, explains, is the consequence of an action...
- How does it do it: it takes your 'input', applies conditions (if/else), then transforms it differently based on that and generates an output.

**Output:**
- What output is generated by your function? What does that represent?

**Write in english**, 5-6 sentences about it, map it, make a plan (draw it) of how it work, like a 'tree map'.

